docs/configuration.md, before:

# ⚙️ Configuration

Basic settings can be configured using key-value pairs:

    sudo snap set mastodon-server KEY=VALUE

The following settings are available:

| Key                          | Values                        | Default value          | Description                                                                             |
|------------------------------|-------------------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `acme.server`                | letsencrypt, zerossl, buypass | letsencrypt            | CA used for acquiring an SSL certificate, see [acme.sh server](https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/Server) |
| `announcements.post-refresh` | true, false                   | true                   | Create an unpublished announcement once the Snap has been refreshed                     |
| `announcements.pre-refresh`  | true, false                   | true                   | Create an announcement 5 minutes before the Snap is refreshed                           |
| `backup.days`                | integer                       | 0                      | Create and keep backups for `backup.days` (enabled if > 0)                              |
| `backup.dir`                 | absolute path                 | `$SNAP_COMMON/backups` | Location of the backup directory [^1]                                                   |
| `cleanup.accounts`           | true, false                   | false                  | Cleanup user accounts, see [tootctl accounts delete](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#accounts-delete) |
| `cleanup.days`               | integer                       | 3                      | Cleanup media and statuses older than `cleanup.days` (enabled if > 0)                   |
| `cleanup.headers`            | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup headers, see [tootctl media remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#media-remove) |
| `cleanup.media`              | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup media files, see [tootctl media remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#media-remove) |
| `cleanup.orphans`            | true, false                   | false                  | Cleanup orphaned media files, see [tootctl media remove-orphans](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#media-remove-orphans) |
| `cleanup.previews`           | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup preview cards, see [tootctl preview_cards remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#preview_cards) |
| `cleanup.statuses`           | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup unreferenced statuses, see [tootctl statuses remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#statuses-remove) |
| `domain`                     | valid FQDN                    |                        | FQDN of the Mastodon instance                                                           |
| `email`                      | valid e-mail                  |                        | E-mail address of the owner of the Mastodon instance                                    |
| `logs.access.enabled`        | true, false                   | false                  | Logging of http(s) accesses                                                             |
| `logs.access.format`         | standard, network, private    | network                | Use of real/network/no IP addresses in the access log                                   |
| `logs.debug`                 | true, false                   | false                  | If enabled, create additional debug logs in `~/snap/mastodon-server/common/debug/logs/` |
| `media.dir`                  | absolute path                 | `$SNAP_COMMON/media`   | Location of the media directory (*public/system*) [^1]                                  |
| `ports.http`                 | 0 to 65353                    | 80                     | HTTP port                                                                               |
| `ports.https`                | 0 to 65353                    | 443                    | HTTPS port                                                                              |
| `status.length`              | integer                       | 1000                   | Character limit of statuses (toots); changes require recompilation of assets [^2]       |
| `system.cpu`                 | integer, auto                 | 2                      | Number of CPU cores available (`auto` will try to determine the number of CPU cores)    |
| `system.ram`                 | integer, auto                 | 2                      | Available RAM in GB (`auto` will try to determine the amount of RAM)                    |
| `system.ssd`                 | true, false                   | true                   | Should be changed if the snap is installed on a slow disk                               |

[^1]: This features requires the removable media plug. To install it, run the command: `sudo snap connect mastodon-server:removable-media`.

[^2]: Changing this value will increase the time it takes for Snapcraft to update this Snap. This will increase the downtime of your instance by about 5 minutes.

You can also set multiple values at once using

    sudo snap set mastodon-server KEY1=VALUE1 KEY2=VALUE2

Configuration files can be used for further customization.

## Single user instances

If you plan to use your instance for yourself only, you may want to enable `SINGLE_USER_MODE` in `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`. This will disable registrations on your instance. See [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#single_user_mode) for more information.

## Data privacy

By default, this Snap will not log accesses unless `logs.access.enabled` is `true`. Otherwise, the IP addresses in the access logs are anonymized by removing the last octet of each IP address (e.g. 192.168.100.10 becomes 192.168.100.0). If you want to change this, for example for debugging or to use [fail2ban](https://github.com/fail2ban/fail2ban), you can set `logs.access.format` to `standard`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Note that even if access logging is enabled and not anonymized, the log files are rotated daily and anonymized.

Also, to allow Mastodon to store IP addresses, you need to increase the value (in seconds) of `IP_RETENTION_PERIOD` in `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`. For example, to set the retention period to 24 hours, use:

    IP_RETENTION_PERIOD=86400

You may also be interested in enabling what is also known as *secure mode* via `AUTHORIZED_FETCH`. This setting prevents unauthenticated access to your instances at the cost of some computational overhead. See [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#authorized_fetch) for more details.

## Mail

Add the following lines to `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`:

    SMTP_SERVER=smtp.example.com
    SMTP_PORT=465
    SMTP_LOGIN=mastodon@example.com
    SMTP_PASSWORD=********
    SMTP_AUTH_METHOD=plain
    SMTP_SSL=true
    SMTP_OPENSSL_VERIFY_MODE=none
    SMTP_ENABLE_STARTTLS=always
    SMTP_FROM_ADDRESS="Mastodon <mastodon@example.com>"

> [!NOTE]
> Note that SMTP is not necessarily required for a single user instance. However, the use of an SMTP service is highly recommended when running a server.

## Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch provides some advanced search features and is required for the posts to be searchable at all. Due to its size, Elasticsearch is not included in this Snap. An [external installation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/deb.html) can be used by adding the following lines to `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`:

    ES_ENABLED=true
    ES_HOST=localhost
    ES_PORT=9200
    ES_PRESET=single_node_cluster
    ES_USER=elastic
    ES_PASS=********

> [!NOTE]
> `ES_USER` and `ES_PASS` are required if `xpack.security` is enabled in `/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml` (see [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/elasticsearch](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/elasticsearch/#security) for details).

Create the elasticsearch indexes using the following command:

    mastodon-server.tootctl search deploy

## S3 Storage

Add the following lines to `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`:

    S3_ENABLED=true
    S3_FORCE_SINGLE_REQUEST=true
    S3_HOSTNAME=s3.example.com
    S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.example.com
    S3_BUCKET=mastodon
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=********
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=********

> [!TIP]
> `S3_FORCE_SINGLE_REQUEST` allows Mastodon to handle large uploads properly. See [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#s3) for a full list of options.

The [bucket policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/bucket-policies.html) must allow for objects to be publicly readable. This is an example of a minimal policy that works:

    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
          "Principal": {
            "AWS": "*"
          },
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Action": "s3:GetObject",
          "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::mastodon-server/*"
        }
      ]
    }

## Translation backend

Since version 4.0 Mastodon can use [DeepL](https://www.deepl.com) and [LibreTranslate](https://github.com/LibreTranslate/LibreTranslate) to translate toots automatically.

The following configuration variables can be used in `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf` to enable the backend:

* DeepL: [`deepl_api_key`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#deepl_api_key) and [`deepl_plan`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#deepl_plan)
* LibreTranslate: [`libre_translate_endpoint`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#libre_translate_endpoint) and [`libre_translate_api_key`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#libre_translate_api_key)

> [!NOTE]
> LibreTranslate is not included in this Snap due to its size.

## Reverse proxy

Mastodon Snap can also be used behind a reverse proxy along with other web services. In this case, SSL must not be enabled because SSL termination is done at the reverse proxy. Also, `ports.http` should be changed from the default (e.g. to `ports.http=81`).

Here is a sample configuration for an nginx reverse proxy:

    upstream mastodon {
        zone upstreams 64K;
        server 127.0.0.1:81 max_fails=1 fail_timeout=2s;
        keepalive 2;
    }

    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name example.com;
        access_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.access.log;
        error_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.error.log;

        location /.well-known/ {
            proxy_pass http://mastodon/.well-known/;
        }

        return 301 https://social.dhelonious.de;
    }

    server {
        listen 443 ssl;
        server_name example.com;
        access_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.access.log;
        error_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.error.log;

        ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem;
        ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem;
        include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf;
        ssl_dhparam /etc/ssl/certs/dhparam.pem;

        add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=15768000; includeSubDomains" always;
        add_header Front-End-Https on;

        client_max_body_size 0;

        location / {
            proxy_pass http://mastodon/;

            proxy_http_version 1.1;
            proxy_pass_header Server;
            proxy_set_header Host $host;
            proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
            proxy_set_header X-Content-Type-Options "nosniff";
            proxy_set_header X-Robots-Tag "noindex,nofollow";
            proxy_set_header X-Frame-Options "SAMEORIGIN";
            proxy_set_header X-XSS-Protection "1; mode=block";
            proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
            proxy_set_header Connection "Upgrade";
        }
    }

## External storage

By default, the mastodon-server Snap does not have access to directories other than `/snap/mastodon-server/`, `/var/snap/mastodon-server/`, and `~/snap/mastodon-server/`. However, it might be desirable to relocate some directories to an external location under `/media/` or `/mnt/`.

To do this, you must first allow the Snap access to external media:

    sudo snap connect mastodon-server:removable-media

### Media

Depending on how busy your server is, the media directory can grow quickly. If you do not have access to S3 storage, you may wish to move the media to a separate partition or disk mounted at `/media/mastodon`.

1. If the default media directory `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/media` already contains files, you can transfer them to your external directory:

        sudo rsync -a /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/media /media/mastodon

2. Then, change the `media.dir` settings to point to your external directory:

        sudo set mastodon-server media.dir=/media/mastodon

3. Afterwards, you can remove the contents of the old media directory:

        rm -rf /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/media/*

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The order of these steps matters if you are doing this after your instance has been running for a while. If you change the `media.dir` to an empty directory, Mastodon will not be able to display media and will have to fetch it, which causes unnecessary network traffic and may even require manual intervention.

### Backups

Since each export contains a compressed archive of the media directory, the size of the backup directory also increases. Additionally, when you uninstall the Snap, all of the above-mentioned directories are deleted, including the default backup directory `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups`, which contains all manual and automatic exports.

Therefore, you may wish to change the location of the `backup.dir` to an external device or NAS mounted under `/mnt/backups`:

    sudo set mastodon-server backup.dir=/mnt/backups

If the default backup directory `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups` already contains exports, you can transfer them to your external directory like this:

    sudo rsync -a /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups /mnt/backups

You can then remove the contents of the old backup directory:

    rm -rf /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups/*

## Tuning

By default, snap tries to detect the hardware resources available and sets the parameters accordingly for optimal performance. These values are stored in the `system.cpu` and `system.ram` snap settings. You can change these values manually and then run `mastodon-server.tune` to update the configurations:

    sudo snap set mastodon-server system.cpu=4 system.ram=8
    sudo mastodon-server.tune

> Tip: This can be used to limit the resource usage of the snap. This can be useful if you are running several different services on one machine.

> Note: Be careful when changing these values! Setting them too high may overload your system or cause mastodon-server to stop working properly. The default values should work well on all systems, including smaller ones.

Commit message:

Restrict chown operations to hooks

docs/configuration.md, after:

# ⚙️ Configuration

Basic settings can be configured using key-value pairs:

    sudo snap set mastodon-server KEY=VALUE

The following settings are available:

| Key                          | Values                        | Default value          | Description                                                                             |
|------------------------------|-------------------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `acme.server`                | letsencrypt, zerossl, buypass | letsencrypt            | CA used for acquiring an SSL certificate, see [acme.sh server](https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/Server) |
| `announcements.post-refresh` | true, false                   | true                   | Create an unpublished announcement once the Snap has been refreshed                     |
| `announcements.pre-refresh`  | true, false                   | true                   | Create an announcement 5 minutes before the Snap is refreshed                           |
| `backup.days`                | integer                       | 0                      | Create and keep backups for `backup.days` (enabled if > 0)                              |
| `backup.dir`                 | absolute path                 | `$SNAP_COMMON/backups` | Location of the backup directory [^1]                                                   |
| `cleanup.accounts`           | true, false                   | false                  | Cleanup user accounts, see [tootctl accounts delete](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#accounts-delete) |
| `cleanup.days`               | integer                       | 3                      | Cleanup media and statuses older than `cleanup.days` (enabled if > 0)                   |
| `cleanup.headers`            | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup headers, see [tootctl media remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#media-remove) |
| `cleanup.media`              | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup media files, see [tootctl media remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#media-remove) |
| `cleanup.orphans`            | true, false                   | false                  | Cleanup orphaned media files, see [tootctl media remove-orphans](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#media-remove-orphans) |
| `cleanup.previews`           | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup preview cards, see [tootctl preview_cards remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#preview_cards) |
| `cleanup.statuses`           | true, false                   | true                   | Cleanup unreferenced statuses, see [tootctl statuses remove](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/#statuses-remove) |
| `domain`                     | valid FQDN                    |                        | FQDN of the Mastodon instance                                                           |
| `email`                      | valid e-mail                  |                        | E-mail address of the owner of the Mastodon instance                                    |
| `logs.access.enabled`        | true, false                   | false                  | Logging of http(s) accesses                                                             |
| `logs.access.format`         | standard, network, private    | network                | Use of real/network/no IP addresses in the access log                                   |
| `logs.debug`                 | true, false                   | false                  | If enabled, create additional debug logs in `~/snap/mastodon-server/common/debug/logs/` |
| `media.dir`                  | absolute path                 | `$SNAP_COMMON/media`   | Location of the media directory (*public/system*) [^1]                                  |
| `ports.http`                 | 0 to 65353                    | 80                     | HTTP port                                                                               |
| `ports.https`                | 0 to 65353                    | 443                    | HTTPS port                                                                              |
| `status.length`              | integer                       | 1000                   | Character limit of statuses (toots); changes require recompilation of assets [^2]       |
| `system.cpu`                 | integer, auto                 | 2                      | Number of CPU cores available (`auto` will try to determine the number of CPU cores)    |
| `system.ram`                 | integer, auto                 | 2                      | Available RAM in GB (`auto` will try to determine the amount of RAM)                    |
| `system.ssd`                 | true, false                   | true                   | Should be changed if the snap is installed on a slow disk                               |

[^1]: This features requires the removable media plug. To install it, run the command: `sudo snap connect mastodon-server:removable-media`.

[^2]: Changing this value will increase the time it takes for Snapcraft to update this Snap. This will increase the downtime of your instance by about 5 minutes.

You can also set multiple values at once using

    sudo snap set mastodon-server KEY1=VALUE1 KEY2=VALUE2

Configuration files can be used for further customization.

## Single user instances

If you plan to use your instance for yourself only, you may want to enable `SINGLE_USER_MODE` in `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`. This will disable registrations on your instance. See [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#single_user_mode) for more information.

## Data privacy

By default, this Snap will not log accesses unless `logs.access.enabled` is `true`. Otherwise, the IP addresses in the access logs are anonymized by removing the last octet of each IP address (e.g. 192.168.100.10 becomes 192.168.100.0). If you want to change this, for example for debugging or to use [fail2ban](https://github.com/fail2ban/fail2ban), you can set `logs.access.format` to `standard`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Note that even if access logging is enabled and not anonymized, the log files are rotated daily and anonymized.

Also, to allow Mastodon to store IP addresses, you need to increase the value (in seconds) of `IP_RETENTION_PERIOD` in `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`. For example, to set the retention period to 24 hours, use:

    IP_RETENTION_PERIOD=86400

You may also be interested in enabling what is also known as *secure mode* via `AUTHORIZED_FETCH`. This setting prevents unauthenticated access to your instances at the cost of some computational overhead. See [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#authorized_fetch) for more details.

## Mail

Add the following lines to `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`:

    SMTP_SERVER=smtp.example.com
    SMTP_PORT=465
    SMTP_LOGIN=mastodon@example.com
    SMTP_PASSWORD=********
    SMTP_AUTH_METHOD=plain
    SMTP_SSL=true
    SMTP_OPENSSL_VERIFY_MODE=none
    SMTP_ENABLE_STARTTLS=always
    SMTP_FROM_ADDRESS="Mastodon <mastodon@example.com>"

> [!NOTE]
> Note that SMTP is not necessarily required for a single user instance. However, the use of an SMTP service is highly recommended when running a server.

## Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch provides some advanced search features and is required for the posts to be searchable at all. Due to its size, Elasticsearch is not included in this Snap. An [external installation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/deb.html) can be used by adding the following lines to `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`:

    ES_ENABLED=true
    ES_HOST=localhost
    ES_PORT=9200
    ES_PRESET=single_node_cluster
    ES_USER=elastic
    ES_PASS=********

> [!NOTE]
> `ES_USER` and `ES_PASS` are required if `xpack.security` is enabled in `/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml` (see [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/elasticsearch](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/elasticsearch/#security) for details).

Create the elasticsearch indexes using the following command:

    mastodon-server.tootctl search deploy

## S3 Storage

Add the following lines to `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf`:

    S3_ENABLED=true
    S3_FORCE_SINGLE_REQUEST=true
    S3_HOSTNAME=s3.example.com
    S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.example.com
    S3_BUCKET=mastodon
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=********
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=********

> [!TIP]
> `S3_FORCE_SINGLE_REQUEST` allows Mastodon to handle large uploads properly. See [docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#s3) for a full list of options.

The [bucket policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/bucket-policies.html) must allow for objects to be publicly readable. This is an example of a minimal policy that works:

    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
          "Principal": {
            "AWS": "*"
          },
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Action": "s3:GetObject",
          "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::mastodon-server/*"
        }
      ]
    }

## Translation backend

Since version 4.0 Mastodon can use [DeepL](https://www.deepl.com) and [LibreTranslate](https://github.com/LibreTranslate/LibreTranslate) to translate toots automatically.

The following configuration variables can be used in `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/mastodon.conf` to enable the backend:

* DeepL: [`deepl_api_key`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#deepl_api_key) and [`deepl_plan`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#deepl_plan)
* LibreTranslate: [`libre_translate_endpoint`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#libre_translate_endpoint) and [`libre_translate_api_key`](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/config/#libre_translate_api_key)

> [!NOTE]
> LibreTranslate is not included in this Snap due to its size.

## Reverse proxy

Mastodon Snap can also be used behind a reverse proxy along with other web services. In this case, SSL must not be enabled because SSL termination is done at the reverse proxy. Also, `ports.http` should be changed from the default (e.g. to `ports.http=81`).

Here is a sample configuration for an nginx reverse proxy:

    upstream mastodon {
        zone upstreams 64K;
        server 127.0.0.1:81 max_fails=1 fail_timeout=2s;
        keepalive 2;
    }

    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name example.com;
        access_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.access.log;
        error_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.error.log;

        location /.well-known/ {
            proxy_pass http://mastodon/.well-known/;
        }

        return 301 https://social.dhelonious.de;
    }

    server {
        listen 443 ssl;
        server_name example.com;
        access_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.access.log;
        error_log /var/log/nginx/example.com.error.log;

        ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem;
        ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem;
        include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf;
        ssl_dhparam /etc/ssl/certs/dhparam.pem;

        add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=15768000; includeSubDomains" always;
        add_header Front-End-Https on;

        client_max_body_size 0;

        location / {
            proxy_pass http://mastodon/;

            proxy_http_version 1.1;
            proxy_pass_header Server;
            proxy_set_header Host $host;
            proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
            proxy_set_header X-Content-Type-Options "nosniff";
            proxy_set_header X-Robots-Tag "noindex,nofollow";
            proxy_set_header X-Frame-Options "SAMEORIGIN";
            proxy_set_header X-XSS-Protection "1; mode=block";
            proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
            proxy_set_header Connection "Upgrade";
        }
    }

## External storage

By default, the mastodon-server Snap does not have access to directories other than `/snap/mastodon-server/`, `/var/snap/mastodon-server/`, and `~/snap/mastodon-server/`. However, it might be desirable to relocate some directories to an external location under `/media/` or `/mnt/`.

To do this, you must first allow the Snap access to external media:

    sudo snap connect mastodon-server:removable-media

### Media

Depending on how busy your server is, the media directory can grow quickly. If you do not have access to S3 storage, you may wish to move the media to a separate partition or disk mounted at `/media/mastodon`.

1. If the default media directory `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/media` already contains files, you can transfer them to your external directory:

        sudo rsync -a /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/media /media/mastodon

2. Then, change the `media.dir` settings to point to your external directory:

        sudo set mastodon-server media.dir=/media/mastodon

3. Afterwards, you can remove the contents of the old media directory:

        rm -rf /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/media/*

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The order of these steps matters if you are doing this after your instance has been running for a while. If you change the `media.dir` to an empty directory, Mastodon will not be able to display media and will have to fetch it, which causes unnecessary network traffic and may even require manual intervention.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The media directory must be owned by `snap_daemon:root`!
>
>     chown -R snap_daemon:root /media/mastodon

### Backups

Since each export contains a compressed archive of the media directory, the size of the backup directory also increases. Additionally, when you uninstall the Snap, all of the above-mentioned directories are deleted, including the default backup directory `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups`, which contains all manual and automatic exports.

Therefore, you may wish to change the location of the `backup.dir` to an external device or NAS mounted under `/mnt/backups`:

    sudo set mastodon-server backup.dir=/mnt/backups

If the default backup directory `/var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups` already contains exports, you can transfer them to your external directory like this:

    sudo rsync -a /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups /mnt/backups

You can then remove the contents of the old backup directory:

    rm -rf /var/snap/mastodon-server/common/backups/*

## Tuning

By default, snap tries to detect the hardware resources available and sets the parameters accordingly for optimal performance. These values are stored in the `system.cpu` and `system.ram` snap settings. You can change these values manually and then run `mastodon-server.tune` to update the configurations:

    sudo snap set mastodon-server system.cpu=4 system.ram=8
    sudo mastodon-server.tune

> Tip: This can be used to limit the resource usage of the snap. This can be useful if you are running several different services on one machine.

> Note: Be careful when changing these values! Setting them too high may overload your system or cause mastodon-server to stop working properly. The default values should work well on all systems, including smaller ones.
